---
date: 2020-10-11T19:29
tags:
  - timeline
  - japanese
  - resources
---

# Beginner Japanese Immersion Material

Just a list of beginner material to consume, for different degrees of
"beginnership". No further analysis on complexity or language has been done so
don't expect an accurate progression guide for what to read or any kanji
frequency lists. Just things that I have read and consider enjoyable and
approachable enough (albeit some with considerable effort). These are my
**personal** recommendations and are not meant to be taken as objective truth.
Tastes and interests are very subjective so you may or may not like some stuff
here, and that's okay too.

Since the level of difficulty in this list fluctuates a lot, the best judge to
know if something is too easy or too hard for you is... yourself! Just give
them a try and see where you stand, if something is too complex don't be afraid
to move to simpler things, it will still be here later when you're ready for it.

NOTE: This list is ever growing. More material is added as I encounter it, so
it should not be considered exhaustive at all. The opposite actually.

## Manga

### Flying Witch / ふらいんぐうぃっち

This manga is great and very simple to read. It has relatively simple grammar
and everyday words. Since it's a slice of life manga, the style is very relaxed
and the story is easy to follow. Even if you miss some parts, there's not really
much progression (as is typical of SoL) so you'll be just fine.

The only downside is that there's a few gags and jokes about some characters
speaking a very heavy Japanese dialect. The reader is not (usually) supposed to
understand any of it, and so is the main character, which is where the comical
situations come out of. However, it can throw off some beginners who might get
confused because of it.

Bonus points for the anime version being helpful if you watch/read them side by
side.

[Link](https://myanimelist.net/manga/46258/Flying_Witch)

### Shinmai Shimai no Futari Gohan / 新米姉妹のふたりごはん

This is not a very well known manga (at least in the west I think?) but it is
my absolute **number 1 choice for beginners** willing to start reading manga.

It is great, it is cute, story is very lighthearted and generally without any
*real* progression so, just like Flying Witch, as a slice of life manga you
won't miss much if you don't understand some parts.

The real strength of this manga is the fact that it focuses mostly on cooking
and food-related words. As a non-native, it is very hard to come across some
words for food that we're used to eat every-day. Most of this manga's vocabulary
relates to the kitchen, the act of eating, or cooking food. It is a real source
of useful words for beginners (and there are some delicious recipes too).

The grammar and dialogue is also very simple, so you can't really go wrong with
it.

[Link](https://myanimelist.net/manga/88663/Shinmai_Shimai_no_Futari_Gohan)

### Yotsubato! / よつばと！

This is the go-to manga to recommend to most beginners, at least according to
most of the Japanese-learning Internet.

Personally speaking, I think this is a great manga for a beginner, but not the
best for an *absolute* beginner. There's often some slangy/dialectal phrases or
quirks in the speech of some characters which can throw off people who aren't
used to it. I would recommend Flying Witch or Futari Gohan over it, however.

One thing that makes this manga quite special is that there's a lot of online
resources and [[6cfc2b98]] decks which can help a lot in getting through it.

[Link](https://myanimelist.net/manga/104/Yotsuba_to)

### My Girlfriend is the Best! / 僕の彼女は最高です！

Another very simple cute manga. It's the story of two partners just doing random
cute everyday thing with comical relief and usual mishaps.

There's not really much to it story-wise but the language is relatively simple
and the dialogue is very back-and-forth easy to approach.

[Link](https://myanimelist.net/manga/110050/Boku_no_Kanojo_wa_Saikou_desu)

### Girl's Last Tour / 少女終末旅行

This manga is on a *whole* other level above the ones mentioned before it.
It is *definitely* not the best way of entry for a beginner, mostly because it
has no [furigana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Furigana) on it, and because
sometimes there's quite a few high-level words or phrases that are not easy to
read.

*However*, this manga has two great benefits:

 * The conversations/dialogues are very sparse and short, meaning the ratio
   of content/words is very high and you will find yourself making a lot of
   progress through the story without needing to read everything; and
 * The anime for this manga covers the first 4 volumes *almost perfectly*. This
   means you can almost follow the anime with the manga out side-by-side and use
   it as a script/content guide. Off the top of my head there's only two
   episodes that actually are two chapters in the inverted order, other than
   that (and the final episode), it's almost the same 1:1

Also it's mad enjoyable (to me at least) and I love the characters. Give it a go
even if it seems out of your league, you never know.

[Link](https://myanimelist.net/manga/72467/Shoujo_Shuumatsu_Ryokou)

### Shimeji Simulation / シメジ シミュレーション

From the same author as Girl's Last Tour. The writing style is almost the exact
same, however the story has definitely more dialogues and events happening so it
feels a bit harder. Not exactly recommended for a beginner but if you read and
enjoyed Girl's Last Tour you can't go wrong with this one.

Unfortunately, there's no anime of this (yet) to assist your reading.

[Link](https://myanimelist.net/manga/117851/Shimeji_Simulation)

## Games

### Pokemon Sword/Shield (Nintendo Switch)

In general, the Pokemon series is always recommended for beginners. I only
played this one in Japanese so I can't say much about the rest. The only thing I
strongly advise against are the very first Pokemon games (on GameBoy). Those do
not use any kanji and the kana is super small due to display size limitations,
it's extremely hard for beginners to recognise where words start and end. You
will not have a good time.

This said, Pokemon Sword/Shield are on the other hand excellent and very easy
to follow for the most part. Despite being RPGs, the story is very linear and
even if you end up not understanding some plot points, you will almost never be
"stuck" on a puzzle or not knowing where to go.

A big downside however, if you are used to the English version of these games
or Pokemon in general, is that a *lot* of Pokemon name and combat moves are
significantly different. So you might feel a bit lost when it comes to Pokemon
names (and they are always full of puns you might not understand yet).

Be sure to play the game with *kanji* and not in kana only (there's different
options in the settings). You'll still get *a lot* of kana, but at least the
kanji will help.

### Paper Mario: The Origami King (Nintendo Switch)

Very cute game. The gameplay itself is quite straightforward and not that
complex (it is a kids game after all). Some of the battles with bosses become
tricky later on and there are explanations/notes on how to solve them, so
testing your understanding of the language is actually quite useful.

The game has full furigana support and is relatively easy to follow. There's a
few instances of weird speech (either archaic or some other speech quirks) but
for the most part it shouldn't be too hard. There are a few word puzzles and
trivia with wordplays that might get tricky but, again, it's a good test of
understanding.

### Snack World: Trejarers Gold (Nintendo Switch / JP Only (?))

I played this game *a long* time ago. It's a pretty cute game overall.

The grammar is relatively simple and it's all with furigana so kanji shouldn't
be an issue. There are a lot of puns about food (mostly) with character and
enemy names. The mechanics are very simple in general and if you like dungeon
crawling light-hearted action RPGs, I think you will enjoy this.

## Visual Novels

### Marco and the Galaxy Dragon / マルコと銀河竜

I love this VN, I really enjoyed it a lot. It is a (mostly) [kinetic novel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinetic_novel),
and it is dialogues for a good 90-95% of the text, so there is no real
expectation of hard descriptions and settings to understand. This makes it
naturally easier than similarly-ranked (in complexity) VNs.

This said, it is not really that simple. The main character (and a lot of other
side characters) speaks with a language quirk so while the grammar is relatively
easy to follow, most sentence endings will not really be *standard*. But you get
used to it.

This VN has a lot of hilarious moments and very high quality animated cutscenes
which makes it almost at the same level as an anime at times.

A **huge** advantage in this game is the ability to enable dual-language
(EN/JP). While normally I don't think one should rely on English subs when
immersing in Japanese, as long as you focus *mostly* on the JP version of the
text, the English translation can be a huge help in understanding.

[Link](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1202540/Marco__The_Galaxy_Dragon/)

### Muv-Luv / マブラヴ

Muv-Luv is a *massive* VN series. From personal experience, I've only played
through the first part of the first game (Muv-Luv Extra) so I can't comment
too much on the rest of the series (but I plan to eventually get to it one
day).

The language is definitely hard at times, and some characters are *much* *much*
harder to understand than others (*ahem*月詠 真那*ahem*), but in general I
susprisingly didn't find it too bad. Just be ready to have a high tolerance for
looking words up in a dictionary (or skipping them altogether).

A good tip, similarly in vein to Marco and the Galaxy Dragon, is that you can
switch from English to Japanese back and forth with just the press of a button
(G if I remember correctly).

One thing I used to do when reading through this is to just read a whole
section/chapter/conversation in Japanese and try to understand it, then swap to
English and go over it again using the log/scrollback feature to see what parts
of the plot I had missed. You can also do this to test your understanding and
see how much you have improved.

[Link](https://store.steampowered.com/app/802880/MuvLuv/)

## Light Novels

### Kuma Kuma Kuma Bear / くまクマ熊ベアー

Very cute light novel. The first light novel I actually read from front to back
(at least the first volume).

The language is very simple and straightforward when it comes to grammar and
pacing. Vocabulary-wise, there are a few words that are very technical/specific
to videogames and isekai-style fantasy novels, but once you look them up and add
them to your [[6cfc2b98]] mining deck, the complexity drops significantly for
the rest of the book.

The story is... alright. It's not the most exciting (at least the first volume),
but it gets the job done. There's a few points in the book where it becomes
extremely boring (to me at least) as you get a few chapters where the same story
you just read is being told from the point of view of another character, which
really destroys the pacing. However, on the positive side, it's a great way to
review what you just read and see how much you understood it.

Overall, this is probably the easiest LN I've ever stumbled upon for beginners,
it's a real godsent.

### Majo no Tabitabi / 魔女の旅々

I'm currently reading through this one so I don't have much to say, however it
looks extremely cute and laid back. After flicking through it a few times to
gauge how complex it was, I felt like the register and language were relatively
similar to Kuma Kuma Kuma Bear, maybe slightly more complex. This makes me think
it might be similarly appropriate for a beginner, but I will update this note as
I go through it myself.

## A note on complexity

Generally speaking, manga are easier to read than games, which are easier than
visual novels to read, which are easier than light novels to read, which are
easier than actual books/novels to read.

Obviously, exceptions exist and within all of these mediums, the difficulty
levels can *really* spike and fluctuate a lot. There's some incredibly complex
visual novels, and some incredibly simple games, and vice versa. It is easier to
find manga and games targeted toward children than it is to find light novels
(usually for young teenagers) or visual novels (ususally for young adults, and
often with undertones of pornographical content, unfortunately).

However, exceptions do exist.

## Extras

My good friend Wareya compiled a list of [[69b91df4]] [web/light novels](http://wiki.wareya.moe/Narou)
and sorted them by various parameters like kanji, vocabulary, frequency lists,
etc. It's a great resource to find new *light novel* material to read with
accurate complexity estimates. It's definitely worth a look.
